---
slug: 2022-04-01-updates
title: Apr 1, 2022 Updates
authors: [khorolets, telezhnaya, frol]
tags: [updates]
---

👋👋 Hello-hello everybody! The Data Platform Team is here with the updates. It's been a wild week with big news, you know.

:::tip Announcement

We've managed to release an MVP of [NEAR Lake Framework](https://github.com/near/near-lake-framework) 🎉!

Read the announcement on the [NEAR Gov forum](https://gov.near.org/t/announcement-near-lake-framework-brand-new-word-in-indexer-building-approach/17668)

:::

We invite early adopters to use the brand-new way of building indexers. If you run an indexer already, please consider migrating to NEAR Lake Framework. This will drastically decrease your spending on infrastructure and eventually will minimize the time you need to maintain your indexers.

So, since the previous week:

<!-- truncate -->

* 🎉 We have publicly [announced the release of NEAR Lake Framework on the NEAR Gov forum](https://gov.near.org/t/announcement-near-lake-framework-brand-new-word-in-indexer-building-approach/17668) (@khorolets)
* 😱 In addition to the announcement we've published a video tutorial on [how to use NEAR Lake Framework on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GsF7I93K-EQ). Please watch it, like it, and subscribe to the channel, you know what to do (@khorolets)
* Worth mentioning, the [source code for the tutorial](https://github.com/near-examples/near-lake-accounts-watcher) is available on GitHub (@khorolets)
* Just for the sake, we have rolled the [0.1.0 release of NEAR Lake indexer](https://github.com/near/near-lake/releases/tag/0.1.0). It's the one the Data Platform Team is running to provide data on AWS S3 for everyone (@khorolets)
* 🥰 By the way we thank @gueux for the contribution to NEAR Lake projects that allow developers to use S3 compatible services (e.g. for local development). Great job!
* We're finishing up the backfilling of the data for NEAR Lake to AWS S3. It's almost done for both testnet and mainnet. I want to remind you that all the up-to-date data is being stored and is already ready to be used. I guess a few more days left to finish the process. (@khorolets)
* 😇 We keep working on rewriting Indexer for Explorer on top of NEAR Lake Framework, switching it to use SingleStore instead of PostgreSQL. To give you some details we're planning the changes to the database structure and choosing the most appropriate libraries. We are going to start giving more details when there be any interesting ones. (@telezhnaya)
* And don't anyone for now, but we're working on NEAR Lake Framework JS, but shhh 🤫 (@khorolets)

I think the week was great and full of successful results 😅. We are looking forward to hearing from you what do you think about NEAR Lake Framework. Please, share your usage stories, we'd like to promote your indexers built on top of NEAR Lake Framework, it can inspire other projects. Your success stories may lead to even more great projects in our ecosystem.

That's all for this week. Stay tuned! Looking forward to seeing you next week.
And don't forget to keep rocking 🤘!
